someday we may have robots the smartest
people artificial intelligence AI how
could that happen one route is that
we'll just keep accumulating better
software like we've been doing for 70
years at past rates of progress that may
take centuries some say it'll happen a
lot faster as we discover grand new
powerful theories of intelligence I'm
skeptical
but a third scenario it's what I'm going
to talk about today
the idea is to port the software from
the human brain to do this we're going
to need three technologies to be good
enough
and none of other there yet first we're
gonna need lots of cheap fast parallel
computers second we're gonna need the
scan individual human brains and fine
spatial and chemical detail to see
exactly what cells are we're connected
of what are what type and third we're
going to need computer models of how
each kind of brain cell works taking
input signals changing in turmoil State
and sending output signals we have good
enough models of all the kinds of brain
cells and a good enough model of a brain
we can put it together to can make it
good enough model of an entire brain and
that model would have the same
input-output behavior as the original so
if you talk to it it might talk back if
you ask them to do things they might do
them and if we could do that everything
would change people have been talking
about this idea for decades under the
name of uploads I'm going to call them
Em's when they talk about it they say is
this even possible if you made one would
it be conscious or is just an empty
machine if you made one of me is that me
or someone else these are all
fascinating questions that I'm going to
ignore
because I see a neglected question what
would actually happen I became obsessed
with this question I spent four years
trying to analyze using standard
academic tools to guess what would
happen and I'm here to tell you what I
found but be warned I'm not offering
inspiration I'm offering analysis I see
my job as telling you what's most likely
to happen if we did the least to avoid
it if you aren't at least a bit
disturbed by something I tell you here
you're just not paying attention okay
the first thing I can tell you is that
Anna spent most of their life in virtual
reality this is what you might look like
if you were using virtual reality and
this is what you might see sunlight
glinting off of water you might hear
gulls flying above you might even feel
the wind on their cheeks or smell
seawater with advanced hardware now if
you were in spent a lot of time here you
might want a dashboard where you could
do things like make a phone call move to
a new virtual world check your bank
account now while this is what you would
look like in virtual reality this is
what an M would look like when virtual
reality it's computer hardware sitting
in a server rack somewhere but still it
could see and experience the same thing
but some things are different for MS
first while you'll probably always
notice that virtual reality isn't
entirely real to an M it can feel as
real to them as this room feels to now
as anything ever feels and Em's also
have some more action possibilities for
example your mind just always runs at
the same speed but an M can add more or
less computer hardware to run faster or
slower and therefore if the world around
them seems to be going too fast they can
just speed up their mine in the world
around them will seem to slow down in
addition an M can make a copy of itself
at that moment this copy will remember
everything the same and if it starts out
with the same speed listening looking at
the same speed at night even they'd be
told you are the copy and M can make an
archive copies and with enough redundant
archives and M can be immortal
principal though not usually in practice
and an M can move its brain the computer
that represents its brain from one
physical location to another and can
actually move around the world at the
speed of light and by moving to a new
location they can interact more quickly
with Em's near that new location
so far I've been talking about what ms
can do what two M's choose to do to
understand that we'll need to understand
three key facts first M by definition do
what the human they emulate would do in
the same situation so their lives and
the behavior is very human they're
mainly different because they're living
in a different world
second M's need real resources to
survive you need food and shelter or
you'll die also M's
need computer hardware energy cooling or
they can't exist for every subjective
minute that an M experiences someone
usually that M had to work to pay for it
third M's report the M population could
grow quicker than the M economy so that
means wages fall down to M subsistence
levels that means M's have to be working
most of the time so that means this is
what M is usually see beautiful and
luxurious but desks there working most
of the time now a subsistence wage
scenario you might think is exotic and
strange but it's actually the usual case
in human history and is how pretty much
all wild animals have ever lived so we
know what humans do in this situation
humans basically do what it takes to
survive and this is what lets me say so
much about the M world when creatures
are rich like you you have to know a lot
about what they want to figure out what
they do when creatures are poor you know
that they mostly do what it takes to
survive so we've been talking about the
M world from the point of view of the
ends now let's step back and look at
their whole world first the M world
grows much faster than ours roughly a
hundred times faster so the same amount
of change we would experience in a
century or two they would experience in
a year or two and I'm not really willing
to project this age much beyond that
because plausibly by then something else
will happen I don't know what
the typical emulation runs even faster
roughly a thousand times human speed so
for them they experience thousands of
years in this year or two and for them
the world around them is actually
changing more slowly than your world
seems to change for you
third M's are crammed together in a
small number of very densities this is
not only how they see themselves in
virtual reality it's also how they
actually are physically crammed together
so at M speeds physical travel feels
really painfully slow so most M cities
are self-sufficient most war is cyber
war and most of the rest of the earth
away from the M cities is left to the
humans because the M s really aren't
that interested in it speaking of humans
you were wanting to hear about that
humans must retire at once for good
they just can't compete now humans start
our owning all of the capital in this
world and the economy grows very fast
their wealth grows very fast
humans get rich collectively as you may
know most humans do they don't actually
known that much besides their ability to
work so between now and then they need
to acquire sufficient assets insurance
or sharing arrangements or they may
starve I highly recommend avoiding this
outcome now you might wonder why would M
let humans exist why not kill them take
their stuff but notice we have many
unproductive retirees around us today we
don't kill them and take their stuff in
part that's because it would disrupt the
institution's we share with them other
groups would wonder who's next
so plausibly m's may well let humans
retire in peace during the Age of M you
should worry more that the age of M only
lasts a year or two and you don't know
what happens next
M s are very much like humans but they
are not like the typical human the
typical M is a copy of the few hundred
most productive humans so in fact they
are as elite compared to the typical
human as a typical billionaire Nobel
Prize winner Olympic gold medalist head
of state MS
look on humans perhaps with nostalgia
and gratitude but not so much respect
which is if you think about it how you
think about your ancestors we know many
things about how humans differ in terms
of productivity we could just use those
to predict features of em's for example
they tend to be smart conscientious
hard-working married religious
middle-aged these are features of Em's
and world also contains enormous variety
not only does it continue on with most
of the kinds of variety that humans do
including variety of industry and
profession they also have many new kinds
of variety and one of the most important
is mind speed and complies ibly go from
up to what human speed up to a million
times faster than human speed and down
to a billion times slower than human
speed faster m/s tend to have markers of
high status they embody more wealth they
win arguments they've set a premium
locations slower m/s or mostly retirees
and they are like the ghosts of our
literature if you recall ghosts are all
around us you can interact with them if
you pay the price but they don't know
much that can't influence much and
they're obsessed with the past so what's
the point
Emma also have more variety in the
structure of their lives this is your
life you start in un really simple this
is the life of an M who every day splits
off some short-term copies to do
short-term tasks and then end this M
we'll talk more about those short terms
that have versions in a moment but they
are much more efficient because they
don't have to rest for the next day this
M is more opportunistic they make more
copies of themselves when there's more
demand for that they don't know which
way the future is going this is an M
designer who conceives of a large system
and then breaks into recursively in two
copies who elaborate that so Emma's can
implement MA the larger more coherent
designs this is animation plumber who
remembers that every day for the last 20
years they only ever worked two hours a
day a life of leisure but what really
happened is every day that had a
thousand copies each of whom did a two
hour plumbing job and only one of them
went on to the next day objectively
they're working well over 99% of the
time subjectively they remember a life
of leisure this again is you you start
in un this could be you if at the start
of a party you took a drug that meant
you would not remember that party ever
after that day some people do this I'm
told
my question for you is toward the end of
the party will you say to yourself I'm
about to die this is terrible
that person tomorrow isn't me because
they won't remember what I do you could
say that or you could say I will go on
tomorrow I just don't remember what I
did this is the M who splits off a short
term copy to do a short term task in the
end they have the same two attitude
possibilities they can say I'm a new
short-term creature with a short life I
hate this or they can say I'm a part of
a larger creature who won't remember
this part I predict they'll have that
second attitude
not because it's philosophically correct
but because it let help someone get
along in this world today if the
president says we must invade Iraq and
you say why they say can't tell you the
state secret you're not sure if you can
trust them but for Em's a copy of the
president and a copy of you can go
inside a safe and inside the safe think
letting all their secret reasons and
then one bit comes out from your copy to
yourself telling if you were convinced
so now you can know there is a good
reason I know you guys are all eager to
evaluate this world you're eager to
decide if you love it or hate it but
think your ancestors from thousands of
years ago would have loved or hated your
world based on the first few things
they'd heard about it because your world
is really just weird
so before judging a strange future world
you should really learn a lot about it
maybe even read a whole book about it
and then if you don't like it work to
change it thank you
[Applause]
[Music]